# Table

Tooltips show contextual help or information about specific components when a user hovers or focuses on them.

## When to use

Use a tooltip only when necessary to provide an explanation for an interface element.

## Alternatives and related components

None

## Anatomy

The tooltip consists of:

1. Text
2. Pointer
3. Container

## Design properties

### Typography

- Text: TheSans/sm/400

### Color

- Text: text color white
- Pointer: fill color Grey/4
- Container: fill color Grey/4

### Structure

- Pointer: width 8px, height 4px, margin 4px
- Container: padding-top and padding-bottom 8px, padding-left and padding-right 12px

## Accessibility

- Tooltips should not receive focus. The focus should remain on the field, button, or link the tooltip is about.
- Tooltips should not be revealed until a short time has passed (~1-5 seconds).
- Depending on the tooltip option you choose, there may be additional ARIA tags you should apply. Add aria-describedby="example1" on an input field and link it to a related section with a matching ID selector id="example1".
- Whenever possible, use descriptive text on your form fields that does need to be activated by a focus or hover event. Tooltips can be problematic for some assistive technologies (AT) devices.

WCAG 2.1 Guidelines

- 1.3.1 Info and Relationships - Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text. (Level A)
- 2.4.6 Headings and Labels - Headings and labels describe topic or purpose. (Level AA)
- 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions - Labels or instructions are provided when content requires user input. (Level A)
- 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value - For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies. (Level A)

## Content guidelines

- Tooltips should be as concise and clear as possible. Keep the text to 1 or 2 short sentences. If the information you need to communicate is longer than that, look into using a different design.
- Be written in sentence case.
- Be scannable.

## Best practices

### Dos

- Provide useful, additional information or clarification.
- Succinctly describe or expand on the element they point to.
- All tooltips have a label. The label communicates the contextual help or information about specific components when a user hovers over or focuses on them.
- By default, the maximum width of a tooltip is 160px on desktop, 200px on mobile.
- A tooltip is positioned in relation to its target. The default placement value is at the bottom.
- The offset is the distance between the end of the tip and the target. The default value is 4 px.
- To make sure that the tooltip will stay within certain boundaries (e.g., a browser window) it’s possible to define a container and a container padding value to respect. The default value for this is 8 px.
- When the label is too long for the available horizontal space, it wraps to form another line.

### Don’ts

- Don't use tooltips to communicate crucial information.
- It should not contain any links or buttons.

## References

[https://a11y-style-guide.com/style-guide/section-forms.html#kssref-forms-tooltips] (https://a11y-style-guide.com/style-guide/section-forms.html#kssref-forms-tooltips)
[https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/tooltip/] (https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/tooltip/)
[https://polaris.shopify.com/components/tooltip] (https://polaris.shopify.com/components/tooltip)
